README.md, before:

# React Police Data API 

A modern React single page application with Docker containerization.

## Features

- React 18 with Vite
- Docker development and production configurations
- Hot Module Replacement (HMR)
- Modern UI with responsive design

## Prerequisites

- Node.js 20 or later
- Docker and Docker Compose

## Development

To start the development server run either of the following commands ( both must be ran in the root of the directory):

```bash
# Using Docker Compose (recommended) 
docker-compose up

# Or using npm
npm install
npm run dev
```

The development server will be available at http://localhost:3000

## Project Structure

```
.
├── src/               # Source files
├── public/            # Static files
├── Dockerfile         # Production Docker configuration
├── Dockerfile.dev     # Development Docker configuration
├── docker-compose.yml # Docker Compose configuration
└── package.json       # Project dependencies and scripts
```


## Decisions

- App needs to be easy to get up and running locally, used `vite` as the local dev server. It supports HMR (Hot Module Replacement), which is significantly faster than webpack.

- Use react query / tanstack query for calling the Police Data API. Simplifies managing asynchronous state in React apps, especially when fetching, caching, and synchronizing data with a server.

- Used material UI for the frontend styling, for simple to use components, and a consistent responsive design

- Will use a dropdown in the table to get more information on a specific task. 

- Spec says "too show crimes "near" to the following office locations" will assume near means "1 mile radius". We can use poly option on API endpoints to show a specific boundary if needed.


## Considerations

- Could use Typescript in the future for Type safety, and easier collaboration.

- The spec doesn't say to make the application responsive, but will try where we can.  


## Future work

- Could add a DB, and login functionality to add more locations if more offices are opened. 

- No mentions of tests, will add some functional tests, and a docker option to run these, if time allows. Will use jest.


## Tasks:

 - Initital app created using vite and docker to run locally. Estimated time: 2 hours

 - Get data for the state from the police API, 
    need to be able to look for multiple locations, see if the API can support this, instead of 4 seperate calls. Estimated time: 2 hours.

 - Create a clean easy to use page with a table to display all the crimes. Estimated time: 2 hours.

 - Add options to filter and search. Estimated time: 1 hour

 - Add ability to show outcomes. Estimated time: 1 hour

Commit message:

feat: added functionality to see crime data from the publicly available police crime stats API (https://data.police.uk/docs/). Calls all four office locations in parallel. Collates this data in a simple table for now. Utilizes tanstack query https://tanstack.com/query

README.md, after:

# React Police Data API 

A modern React single page application with Docker containerization.

## Features

- React 18 with Vite
- Docker development and production configurations
- Hot Module Replacement (HMR)
- Modern UI with responsive design

## Prerequisites

- Node.js 20 or later
- Docker and Docker Compose

## Development

To start the development server run either of the following commands ( both must be ran in the root of the directory):

```bash
# Using Docker Compose (recommended) 
docker-compose up

# Or using npm
npm install
npm run dev
```

The development server will be available at http://localhost:3000

## Project Structure

```
.
├── src/               # Source files
├── public/            # Static files
├── Dockerfile         # Production Docker configuration
├── Dockerfile.dev     # Development Docker configuration
├── docker-compose.yml # Docker Compose configuration
└── package.json       # Project dependencies and scripts
```


## Decisions

- App needs to be easy to get up and running locally, used `vite` as the local dev server. It supports HMR (Hot Module Replacement), which is significantly faster than webpack.

- Use react query / tanstack query for calling the Police Data API. Simplifies managing asynchronous state in React apps, especially when fetching, caching, and synchronizing data with a server.

- Used material UI for the frontend styling, for simple to use components, and a consistent responsive design

- Will use a dropdown in the table to get more information on a specific task. 

- Spec says "too show crimes "near" to the following office locations" will assume near means "1 mile radius". We can use poly option on API endpoints to show a specific boundary if needed.


## Considerations

- Could use Typescript in the future for Type safety, and easier collaboration.

- The spec doesn't say to make the application responsive, but will try where we can.  

- Could use a CSS preprocessing tool like SASS, but given the small size we won't need variables and nesting. Maybe if the application needs to scale.

- If one location query fails we should still show some data if the other queries succeed.


## Future work

- Could add a DB, login functionality and admin section to add more locations if more offices are opened. 

- No mentions of tests, will add some functional tests, and a docker option to run these, if time allows. Will use jest.

- There is rate limiting in place on this API. The current rate limit is 15 requests per second with a burst of 30. To reduce the chance of errors we could build a microservice (API Gateway) to cache and decode the response into only the fields that we need. 


## Tasks:

 - ~~Initital app created using vite and docker to run locally. Estimated time: 2 hours~~

 - ~~Get data for the state from the police API, need to be able to look for multiple locations, see if the API can support this, instead of 4 seperate calls. Estimated time: 2 hours.~~

 - Create a clean easy to use page with a table to display all the crimes using material-ui. Estimated time: 2 hours.

 - Add options to filter and search. Estimated time: 1 hour

 - Add ability to show outcomes. Estimated time: 1 hour
